We will discuss loans and mortgages
and credit cards later in the course,
but for now let's talk about
six tips to lower your debt expenses.
Debt expense tip number one,
cancel your credit cards every year tip.
This one's been out there, but this is something I do.
There's so many expenses on your credit cards
that are recurring that we sometimes forget to cancel
or we didn't read the fine print
and we're being billed monthly or even annually
from items like Xbox Gold, or magazines,
or internet music services, et cetera.
These companies make it so hard to cancel these items.
It's so hard to find the phone number
just to call them and cancel the payments.
So, the best way to stop them from charging you
is to cancel your credit card annually.
I'm not telling you to do anything unethical here.
Try to stop those companies from billing you if you can,
and also when you cancel your credit card,
if there's no way that you can find
a way to cancel these things, then obviously
they can't keep charging you when you cancel that card.
Take a close look at your credit card bill because
there's quite often very, very small charges that we ignore,
but they add up over time.
Okay, debt expense number two,
lower your interest charges by asking
at least one time per year for a break.
If interest rates drop,
then please call your debt holders immediately
and see if you can refinance your loans
or mortgages by asking for lower rates.
And we're gonna cover mortgages later in the course here.
(upbeat music)
As for discounts, the worst thing they're gonna say
on the phone to you is no.
But you have to at least try because
most people don't bother trying to do this,
and a company is only as good as its customer service.
I really believe that, so ask more often, please.
Debt expenses tip number 3,
pay you credit card debts first tip.
Credit cards are evil,
many of them charge close to 20% annually,
which is about twice as high than the average
historical return you can get investing in stocks.
So obviously, pay these credit cards first,
and if you cannot, then please make the minimum payment
so that your credit rating does not get destroyed.
And we're gonna talk a lot about credit ratings
and how to improve your credit rating later in the course.
Debt expense tip number four,
read, read, read all statements tip.
Please read every line item on all of your bills,
and every line item on all of your account statements,
as mistakes are made all the time.
It's kinda like when you go out to dinner as well,
if you look closely every now and then you'll notice
you got charged for an extra drink, whatever it is.
Just be a pain in the neck please,
because I care and I want you to save money.
So, call your credit card company
if you see a mistake on your statement,
as this is why you pay them
crazy high interest rates anyway,
and you're a customer, the customer is always right.
It will almost always eliminate incorrect charges
if you complain, all you gotta do is call.
Debt expenses tip number five,
tracking expenses and budgeting tip.
If you track your expenses, you will spend much less.
Later in the course we're gonna create
a budget for you and when you budget,
you think of each item like it's an allowance.
For example, if you budget $10 per month
for lunch at a fast food restaurant,
then that is all you can spend at that fast food restaurant.
And this'll make much more sense
to you later on in the course.
Debt expense tip number six,
please understand what hurts your credit score tip.
Please look at your credit score annually
and do whatever you can to improve it.
You can also call credit agencies
and ask them how to improve your credit score.
And we're gonna cover your credit score
in a lot of detail later in the course.
Debt expenses tip number seven,
you don't need to have more
than two or three credit cards tip.
Please minimize the number of credit cards that you have
and understand what the annual fees are,
and only use credit cards that will help you
get points to save on travel, et cetera,
and cancel all store-based credit cards if you can, please.
These fees can add up over time
over a number of different credit cards
that you might forget you actually have.
Sometimes you get these teaser rates,
they seduce you to sign up for a credit card
because there's not fee, no annual fee,
and then in year two there's a massive annual fee.
So just please make sure that you read the fine print.
If you don't understand then call the credit card company
and ask them to explain it to you in plain english.
I have had to do this a number of times because
these contracts you get involved with are quite complex.